---
locale: en
comments: true
date: 2016-11-05 20:00:00
layout: post
slug: man-pages
title: "Man pages and ruby"
categories:
- man
---
> A man page is a form of software documentation usually found on a Unix or
> Unix-like operating system. Topics covered include computer programs, formal
> standards and conventions, and even abstract concepts. A user may invoke a
> man page by issuing the man command.
>
> -- <cite>[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man_page)</cite>

I love man pages. I stopped counting how many times they helped me to figure
out what I had to do. If I try out a new command line tool, I always do
two things:

* `tool -h` to check the brief explanation of the tool
* `man tool` to skim through the documentation

This helps me a lot in understanding the tool. What does it offer? How
do I have to use it and what can I expect from it?

Sadly right now it is really problematic to ship a man page with your
ruby command line tool. Till last month you basically only had one option:
[gem-man](https://github.com/defunkt/gem-man), a gem developed by
[@defunkt](https://github.com/defunkt) more than 5 years ago. The way it worked
was to add a new command to `gem` called `gem man`. And yes, you could alias it
to `man` but it felt more like a hack than anything else. Calling a ruby programm
just to open a regular non ruby man page sounded a bit absurd to me. Or the fact that you needed
to remember if a tool is written in ruby to find it's man page. Imagine
you would have to do that for every programming language.

But there is a better way. I wrote a gem plugin called [manpages](https://github.com/bitboxer/manpages)
that scans for man pages during the gem installation phase and copies the files
to a folder that the `man` command is able to find. No more aliasing or remembering
if a tool is based on ruby. Install a gem and call `man guard` to see it's documentation.

How awesome is that?

Jump into the [README.md](https://github.com/bitboxer/manpages) and install it now. And more importantly: if
you have developed a command line utility in ruby, please consider adding
a man page for it.
