---
comments: true
date: 2016-12-21 09:00:00
layout: post
slug: lanyrd
title: "Status of Lanyrd"
categories:
- conference
- website
- lanyrd
---
When [lanyrd](http://lanyrd.com) was bought by [Eventbrite](http://eventbrite) in
[2013](http://lanyrd.com/blog/2013/eventbrite/) I had high hopes that the platform
would continue to thrive. It was just a too good fit to be worried about it.

Sadly that wasn't the case. Lanyrd basically froze in time. The announcement blogpost
was the 2nd last blogpost in Lanyrds history. The twitter account staid somewhat
active retweeting random messages till September 2015. After that it stopped.

In the last couple of months the site got more and more unstable. To a point where
it felt like it was more offline than online. Without any explanation. Tweets to
it kept unanswered. Emails to the support staff didn't get any reply.

In short: I was worried.

After trying to reach out to several official channels I finally tried the Eventbrite
press email. And to my surprise someone answered with the following talking points:

* Lanyrd is run separately from Eventbrites operations
* We can confirm that we recently had problems with the uptime of Lanyrd. We
  are working on it.
* We are developing a plan for the future of Lanyrd. Details will be shared
  in due time

The only takeaway here: they know it is in bad shape right now. It would be
awesome if someone<sup>TM</sup> would write a lanyrd alternative. I loved the service
and discovered conferences with it that I would have never visited without it.
